Elaborate on lexical grammar (#18304)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/lexical_grammar/index.md

In this case, the `console.log()` call is never issued, since it's inside a comment. Any number of lines of code can be disabled this way.

There's a special third comment syntax, the **hashbang comment**. A hashbang comment behaves exactly like a single line-only (`//`) comment, except that it begins with `#!` and **is only valid at the absolute start of a script or module**. Note also that no whitespace of any kind is permitted before the `#!`. The comment consists of all the characters after `#!` up to the end of the first line; only one such comment is permitted.

> Hashbang comments in JavaScript resemble [shebangs in Unix](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)>) used to run files with proper interpreter. Before the hashbang comment became standardized, it had already been de-facto implemented in non-browser hosts like Node.js, where it was stripped from the source text before being passed to the engine. The hashbang comment specifies the path to a specific JavaScript interpreter that you want to use to execute the script. An example is as follows:

Reviewer: "to run files with proper interpreter" probably needs something after "with". If it were me, I'd switch this around a bit - I don't care much about the detail of shebangs, so a link is sufficient).

```suggestion
Hashbang comments provide the path to a specific JavaScript interpreter that you want to use to execute the script (they resemble [shebangs in Unix](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)). Note that before the hashbang comment became standardized, it had already been de-facto implemented in non-browser hosts like Node.js, where it was stripped from the source text before being passed to the engine.

An example is as follows:
```

Reviewer: FYI only, you'll see that I tend to line break on full stops. I find that a lot better when editing and for reviewing changes. But there is no standardization or desire to standardize on this.

Author: Yeah, I don't have strong opinions on breaking between sentences or only breaking between paragraphs—my own Prettier setting would eat all non-paragraph-breaking line breaks, so I just break between paragraphs. But both work much better than breaking by column width...

```js
#!/usr/bin/env node

console.log("Hello world");
```

> **Warning:** If you want scripts to be runnable directly in a shell environment, encode them in UTF-8 without a [BOM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byte_order_mark). Although a BOM will not cause any problems for code running in a browser, it is not advised to use a BOM with a hashbang in a script — because the BOM will prevent the script from working when you try to run it in a Unix/Linux shell environment. So if you want scripts to be runnable directly in a shell environment, encode them in UTF-8 without a BOM.

You must only use the `#!` comment style to specify a JavaScript interpreter. In all other cases just use a `//` comment (or multiline comment).

## Identifiers

> An _identifier_ is used to assign a name to a value. Identifiers can be used in various places:

Reviewer 2: I'm not fond of _assign_ here as it may be confused with the _assignment_ operator. What about:
```suggestion
An _identifier_ is used to link a name to a value. Identifiers can be used in various places:
```

> const decl = 1; // Variable declaration

Reviewer: Maybe more specific since there is no let or var here. Appreciate you could argue "it's a variable", this shows what I want.

```suggestion
const decl = 1; // Const variable declaration
```

```js
const decl = 1; // Variable declaration
function fn() {} // Function declaration
const obj = { key: 'value' }; // Object keys
class C { // Class declaration
  #priv = 'value'; // Private property
}
lbl: console.log(1); // Label
```

> In JavaScript, the production of identifiers can be described by the regex `/[$_\p{ID_Start}][$\u200c\u200d\p{ID_Continue}]*/u` (excluding unicode escape sequences). `\p{ID_Start}` includes any character with property "ID_Start", and `\p{ID_Continue}` includes any character with property "ID_Continue". `$` and `_` are allowed anywhere in a JavaScript identifier, while \<ZWNJ> and \<ZWJ> (described in [format-control characters](#format-control_characters)) are not allowed at the start.

Reviewer 2: This sounds overly complicated. I think we shouldn't use spec terminology like `ID_Start` and `ID_Continue`. We should describe them.

Even the regexp here is not legible, I would avoid it.

I would avoid the word _production_ altogether in this page.

Author: > Even the regexp here is not legible, I would avoid it.

I've found the regex to be useful multiple times in my own work, so it's included as a reference. I've seen a lot of devs using something like `[A-Za-z_$][\w$]*` which is dangerously wrong.

> I would avoid the word _production_ altogether in this page.

Good point.

> In addition, JavaScript allows using [unicode escape sequences](#unicde_escape_sequences) in the form of `\u0000` or `\u{000000}` in identifiers, which encode the same string value as the actual unicode characters. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition, JavaScript allows using [Unicode escape sequences](#unicode_escape_sequences) in the form of `\u0000` or `\u{000000}` in identifiers, which encode the same string value as the actual Unicode characters. For example, 你好 and \u4f60\u597d are the same identifiers:
```

```js
const 你好 = "Hello";
console.log(\u4f60\u597d); // Hello
```

> Not all places accept the full range of identifiers. Certain productions require using identifiers names that are not reserved words (introduced in the next section), such as _FunctionDeclaration_, _FunctionExpression_, _VariableDeclaration_ and so on.

Reviewer 2: Avoid _production_ here.

Also, link to _reserved words_ (instead of the parenthesis section)

Don't use _FunctionDeclaration_, _FunctionExpression_, _VariableDeclaration_ that are:
1. Not defined
2. Spec language, unknow to web developers
3. Not visible to web developers at all.

function import() {} // Illegal: import is a reserved word.
```

## Keywords

> _Keywords_ are identifiers that have special meanings in JavaScript. For example, the keyword [`async`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/async_function) before a function declaration indicates that the function is asynchronous.

Reviewer: FWIW when I saw this I recall above where you say "An _identifier_ is used to link a value with a name. " . How is a keyword linking a value to a name? In other words, how is it an identifier?

Author: Yeah, I should say "looks like an identifier". There are two things: _Identifier_ and _IdentifierName_. _IdentifierName_ is _Identifier_ minus keywords. You can still use the full range of identifiers in object keys, for example `{ with: "is a keyword" }`, just not as standalone declaration like `const with = "is a keyword"`

Reviewer: YOur fix is good here

> _Keywords_ are identifiers that have special meanings in JavaScript. For example, the keyword [`async`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/async_function) before a function declaration indicates that the function is asynchronous. A _reserved word_ is a keyword that cannot be used as an identifier for variable declarations, function declarations, etc. Not all keywords are reserved — for example, `async` can be used as identifier anywhere. Some keywords are only _contextually reserved_ — for example, `await` is only reserved within the body of an async function, and `let` is only reserved in strict mode code or `const`- or `let`-declarations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Keywords_ are identifiers that have special meanings in JavaScript. For example, the keyword [`async`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/async_function) before a function declaration indicates that the function is asynchronous.

A _reserved word_ is a keyword that cannot be used as an identifier for variable declarations, function declarations, etc. Not all keywords are reserved — for example, `async` can be used as an identifier anywhere. Some keywords are only _contextually reserved_ — for example, `await` is only reserved within the body of an async function, and `let` is only reserved in strict mode code, or `const`- and `let`-declarations.
```

> Identifiers are always compared by _string value_. For example, this is still a syntax error:

Reviewer 2: Not clear for the audience (beginners). What does "compared by _string value_" mean?

> A _reserved word_ is a keyword that cannot be used as an identifier for variable declarations, function declarations, etc. Not all keywords are reserved — for example, `async` can be used as an identifier anywhere. Some keywords are only _contextually reserved_ — for example, `await` is only reserved within the body of an async function, and `let` is only reserved in strict mode code, or `const`- and `let`-declarations.

Reviewer: 1. Is it is a reserved word or reserved keyword or is there a possible distinction? I ask because you call the heading below "reserved keywords"
2. This sentence states what a reserved word is and then proceeds to give examples of things that are not reserved. Perhaps just one example here and link down to the reserved keyworks.

I might be missing something, if so apologies!

> A _reserved word_ is a keyword that cannot be used as an identifier for variable declarations, function declarations, etc. Not all keywords are reserved — for example, `async` can be used as an identifier anywhere. Some keywords are only _contextually reserved_ — for example, `await` is only reserved within the body of an async function, and `let` is only reserved in strict mode code, or `const`- and `let`-declarations.

Reviewer: Following on from the comment above, this is confusing as keyword and identifier are now mixed. Perhaps we can separate them by doing something like:

```suggestion
Some keywords are _reserved_, meaning that they cannot be used as an identifier for variable declarations, function declarations, etc. Not all keywords are reserved — for example, `async` can be used as an identifier anywhere. Some keywords are only _contextually reserved_ — for example, `await` is only reserved within the body of an async function, and `let` is only reserved in strict mode code, or `const`- and `let`-declarations.
```

But just before "Not all keywords are reserved" it might be good to say "(a list of these are provided below [link to reserved keyword]"

```js example-bad
const els\u{65} = 1;
```

> ### Reserved keywords

Reviewer: Perhaps in the next line.

"These keyword names cannot be used as identifiers:"

The JavaScript interpreter will treat it as a normal comment — it only has semantic meaning to the shell if the script is directly run in a shell.

> **Warning:** If you want scripts to be runnable directly in a shell environment, encode them in UTF-8 without a [BOM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byte_order_mark). Although a BOM will not cause any problems for code running in a browser, it is not advised to use a BOM with a hashbang in a script — because the BOM will prevent the script from working when you try to run it in a Unix/Linux shell environment. So if you want scripts to be runnable directly in a shell environment, encode them in UTF-8 without a BOM.

You must only use the `#!` comment style to specify a JavaScript interpreter. In all other cases just use a `//` comment (or multiline comment).

## Identifiers

An _identifier_ is used to link a value with a name. Identifiers can be used in various places:

```js
const decl = 1; // Variable declaration (may also be `let` or `var`)
function fn() {} // Function declaration
const obj = { key: 'value' }; // Object keys
class C { // Class declaration
  #priv = 'value'; // Private property
}
lbl: console.log(1); // Label
```

> In JavaScript, the range of identifiers can be described by the regex `/[$_\p{ID_Start}][$\u200c\u200d\p{ID_Continue}]*/u` (excluding unicode escape sequences). `\p{ID_Start}` includes any character with property "ID_Start", and `\p{ID_Continue}` includes any character with property "ID_Continue". `$` and `_` are allowed anywhere in a JavaScript identifier, while \<ZWNJ> and \<ZWJ> (described in [format-control characters](#format-control_characters)) are not allowed at the start.

Reviewer: This is a very technical description. I don't "object" to it and it might be useful detail for someone wondering why their identifier is invalid.

But we're not writing a spec. Is it possible to have this as a note of some kind and start off with a more human command. Like 

> Almost any sequence of characters is allow, including unicode characters, but excluding reserved keywords and some other syntaxes. To be precise, the range o identifiers is ...

Its a minor point. I'm raising it because I immediately ignored this note as unparsable.

Author: Yeah, I think I'll move this to a note. I absolutely want to teach people that identifiers are not equal to `\w+`.

```js
function import() {} // Illegal: import is a reserved word.
```

Most notably, private properties and object properties allow reserved words.

```js
const obj = { import: "value" }; // Legal despite `import` being reserved
class C {
  #import = "value";
}
```

## Keywords

_Keywords_ are tokens that look like identifiers but have special meanings in JavaScript. For example, the keyword [`async`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/async_function) before a function declaration indicates that the function is asynchronous.

Some keywords are _reserved_, meaning that cannot be used as an identifier for variable declarations, function declarations, etc. They are often called _reserved words_. [A list of these reserved words](#reserved_words) is provided below. Not all keywords are reserved — for example, `async` can be used as an identifier anywhere. Some keywords are only _contextually reserved_ — for example, `await` is only reserved within the body of an async function, and `let` is only reserved in strict mode code, or `const`- and `let`-declarations.

> Identifiers are always compared by _string value_, so escape sequences are interpreted. For example, this is still a syntax error:

Reviewer: FWIW This is really good now.

- `implements`
- `interface`
- {{jsxref("Statements/let", "let")}} (also reserved in `const`- or `let`-declarations)
- `package`

> - `private`

Reviewer: There is a line just below the heading above " They have no special functionality at present, but they might at some future time, so they cannot be used as identifiers."

That should be fixed in light of some of these

- `transient`
- `volatile`

### Identifiers with special meanings

> A few identifiers have a special meaning in some contexts without being reserved words of any kind. They include:

Reviewer 2: We use _reserved keywords_ until now:
```suggestion
A few identifiers have a special meaning in some contexts without being reserved keywords of any kind. They include:
```

Author: In the definition itself we said "A _reserved word_ is a keyword that..." I think there's little ambiguity anyway.

Reviewer: See case below "(cannot be declared as identifier in strict mode)". So at least some of these ARE reserved words or keywords in some circumstances. What's the point of introducing these - is it to show these contexts where they are reserved or something else? I mean for example, why are you showing get if not to indicate it shouldn't be used as an identifier?

To me this is back to a problem of mixing the term identifier and keyword + being clear on whether we are indicating these are reserved words or something else.

Author: There are three things:

- Identifier
- Keyword
- Reserved word

This section is "funny" because we are already mixing two things: "identifiers that are not keywords" and "keywords that are not reserved words". I've omitted some gory details, but in order to be a keyword, you have to be part of a syntax production first. But `eval` and `arguments` are not any special syntax—they are just normal identifiers. The fact that they can't be used as identifiers is "carved out" as special cases in the spec. OTOH `async`, `get`, `set` are actual syntax.

Reviewer: Good enough for government work :-)

0777 // parsed as octal, 511 in decimal
```

> Note that decimal literals can start with a zero (`0`) followed by another decimal digit, but if all digits after the leading `0` are smaller than 8, the number is interpreted as an octal number. `0`-prefixed number literals, whether interpreted as octal or decimal, will cause a syntax error in strict mode — use the `0o` prefix instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that decimal literals can start with a zero (`0`) followed by another decimal digit, but if all digits after the leading `0` are smaller than 8, the number is interpreted as an octal number. More, number literals prefixed with `0`, whether interpreted as octal or decimal, will cause a syntax error in strict mode, so, use the `0o` prefix instead.
```

##### Exponential

The decimal exponential literal is specified by the following format: `beN`; where `b` is a base number (integer or floating), followed by an `E` or `e` character (which serves as separator or _exponent indicator_) and `N`, which is *exponent* or *power* number – a signed integer (as per 2019 ECMA-262 specs):

```js

> 0e-5   // => 0

Reviewer 2: We should have some example(s) using 'E'.

Also, it is missing in the browser-compatibility data. It should be added there as it is a recent addition (ES2019).

Author: > it is a recent addition (ES2019)

Huh, is it? I didn't know that.

- U+000D \<CR>,
- and U+000A \<LF>.

> Prior to the [proposal to make all JSON text valid ECMA-262](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-json-superset), U+2028 \<LS> and U+2029 \<PS> were also disallowed from appearing unescaped in string literals.

Reviewer 2: Is it part of the standard now? This is likely to be added to bcd and removed here. There is no such restriction anymore (we document the present, not the past).

Author: Yes, it's included in ES2019.

- `continue`, `break`, `throw`
- `return`

There are three cases when semicolon are automatically inserted:

> 1\. When a token not allowed by the grammar is encountered, and it's separated from the previous token by at least one [line terminator](#line_terminators), or the token is "}", then a semicolon is inserted before the token.

Reviewer: Why this list format?
```suggestion
1. When a token not allowed by the grammar is encountered, and it's separated from the previous token by at least one [line terminator](#line_terminators), or the token is "}", then a semicolon is inserted before the token.
```

Author: I've kept it as not-a-list, because there are a lot of block elements that separate them, so even if we use a proper ol here, we will end up with three disjoint `<ol>`s. OTOH indenting everything else doesn't look like nice typesetting to me.

Reviewer: Everything indented under a list usually looks OK to me. But if you have looked at this and you're sure, then fine.

> The ECMAScript specification mentions [three rules of semicolon insertion](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-rules-of-automatic-semicolon-insertion).

Reviewer 2: We don't care that the ECMAScript spec mentions. We should rephrase it, maybe as simple as:
```suggestion
There are three cases when semicolon are automatically inserted:
```

{ 1
;2 ;} 3;

// Which is valid grammar encoding three statements,
// each consisting of a number literal
```

> Specially, the ending ")" of [`do...while`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/do...while) is taken care of by this rule as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Specifically, the ending ")" of [`do...while`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/do...while) is taken care of by this rule as well.
```

```js
do {
  // ...
} while (condition) /* ; */ // ASI here
const a = 1
```

2\. When the end of the input stream of tokens is reached, and the parser is unable to parse the single input stream as a complete program, a semicolon is inserted at the end.

```js
const a = 1 /* ; */ // ASI here
```

This rule is a complement to the previous rule, specifically for the case where there's no "offending token" but the end of input stream.

> 3\. When a statement with restricted productions in the grammar is followed by a line terminator, a semicolon is inserted. These statements with "no LineTerminator here" rules are (the _italicized_ text is not the same as the nonterminal names in the spec — they are only used here for illustration):

Reviewer 2: Avoid _production_ and _LineTerminator_

- _Expression_ [here] `++`, _Expression_ [here] `--`
- `continue`[here] _Label_
- `break` [here] _Label_
- `return` [here] _Expression_
- `throw` [here] _Expression_
- `yield` [here] _Expression_
- `yield` [here] `*` _Expression_
- _Parameters_ [here] `=>` _FunctionBody_

> - `async` [here] `function`, `async` [here] _PropertyName_, `async` [here] `function*`, `async` [here] `*` _PropertyName_, `async` [here] _Parameters_ [here] `=>` _FunctionBody_

Reviewer 2: This is spec language to update. Maybe with concrete examples?

Author: It's not rigorous spec language either. I omitted details like _AssignmentExpression_. I would use examples instead.

++c;
```

> Here the return statement returns `undefined`, and the `a + b` becomes an unreachable statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here the `return` statement returns `undefined`, and the `a + b` becomes an unreachable statement.
```

a + b;
```

> In addition, some line breaks, when removed, still make the program valid grammar around that point, and therefore do not trigger ASI:

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this sentence and the examples don't help.

_not trigger ASI_ is a complex, we should say how it will be interprated.
